if you go to github.com Lippe TV or kids
looking to be examples and then the same
for ya when we break out because we'll
be only going through a few of these but
you can feel free to pull it down and go
through the next week because we talked
to you this I think the one that you're
most comfortable with
just because you will be going through a
lot of you concepts so here's work the
most in the browser with so while
everybody doing that we'll go over some
basic concepts and start talking to
things so what is lit p2p so we got the
world wide web back in 91 which is 28
years ago and building networking and
applications still kind of sucks if you
want to do that distributed or
peer-to-peer it sucks
extra hard so ultimately what we want to
do is be able to create a library where
we can just pull in the bits that we
need for our specific use cases for our
applications and then focus on actually
writing that our application code not
worry about the network effect so this
is also what we're trying to do it with
because we're trying to make that easy
to just pull it in the networking layer
and then call it a day
limpia Pete is the networking layer that
I get best uses and ultimately it's just
a composable not modular networking
librarian so if you go to whip me to be
core there's usually not a whole lot of
logic there it's a smelled in from all
of these different projects but you can
just bring in a bundle so what are we
building today so this is the browser
version we're building the chat app by
the end of the course we'll be using
pub/sub to go through and send chat
messages across the whole available
clients and we have a basic chat metrics
being passed over pups up as well just
kind of show connected peers and you can
also
shortly on this slide over here as ears
join the network worst case will walk
alright so another channel why are we
building a chat even a basic chat app is
gonna let us walk through a lot of the
problems that we have with building
distributed systems just connecting to
the network how do we connect shion's so
that we can make sure that our chat data
is safe
how do we create our own chat board
fault this is something that a lot of
people get hung up on when they were
building the PPP is grating their own
protocol how we use connections if we
want to go through a myriad of using
different protocols dhts pub/sub direct
messaging identify we don't want to
create connections to tears every time
we do that we don't want multiple
connections to peer so how do we reuse
the attention that we have we're also
going to talk about discovering tears
doesn't it was very good to be
distributed if we can't justify tears on
the network and then if we view fun
peers how do we connect to them if
they're Navin so talking to browsers
talking to people on home networks oh
well I've been playing around I get best
they might do that at home
and most homes are behind Nats so how
can we dial those handling more complex
data on our protocol we want to be able
to have a protocol that does many
different things and not just a specific
thing so how can we make our data more
complex there and then we'll also cover
broadcast and gated with pub/sub and how
we can find peers and content with the
PhD so there's a lot of lemon so the
very first thing that we're going to
need in order to connect appears our
transports so Lippe to be we use
transports to do the actual interface
data exchange in Lib PP so I transports
are going to have two components they're
going to have a dialing component for
outbound connections and listening
component
something important to note on all
transports we'll be able to listen this
is very common for browsers however we
do have exceptions to that rule and we
actually haven't run in today so I'm
running on my machine at this IP address
a bootstrap node that is also running a
web RTC signaling server which we'll go
over what that is in a little bit but
signaling servers and rondalee servers
Allah give us the ability for browser
notes to listen on that server and use
that as an entry point so we've kind of
overcome that match for song brother so
let's some of these transports this is
just a subset the transports we have
available these are some of the more
common ones TCP we can see its
availability here across the different
implementations TCP doesn't work in the
browser unfortunately not yet but it
does work in don't go and rust so that's
a good option especially if you're
running a server WebSockets works on all
of them so that's definitely an option
to look at WebRTC is getting an
implementation then go limp leave it's
quite there yet and that's nice because
web RTC has some built-in Nats bristle
techniques so once we get that that will
help a lot with network connectivity and
then quick has a working implementation
in go but they could expect not complete
yet so we're not going to see a lot of
the other things annotations until
that's done although I believe there is
a j/s version in provinces all right so
for workshop today the transports that
we're gonna be using we're going to be
using TCP and WebSockets this will we'll
be able to run out a node and go
WebSockets we'll be able to add to the
browser and then on the jas side of
things we're going to add web RPC and so
what WebRTC is going to give us is that
that direct browser browser
communication and then it's also going
to give us the ability to listen on this
signaling so
you're mentioning that we've got to see
these good format that you will use to
you need to use system server to have
access to emergency mention so you still
need a stun server however we are in
partners of building working on aspect
to create a distributed signaling
servers so giving any node the ability
to run a stun server for you so as long
as you're connected to a node you could
use that node as a signature red easy
breezy super goo yeah
so hopefully that would be one of the
things that I work on right so this is
when we would break and go into
configuring transports because we're on
a compressed timeline we'll skip over
that but as you're going through that if
you do this on your own or you're doing
it right now pulling along if you do get
stuck you can look at chapter 2 and it
will have all the solution code for you
we're likely going to go through and
we'll probably stop at chapter 4 and
walk through some of that could cause a
bit more complex and that will make some
time at the end to go through the more
complex messages so once we have that
initial transport configuration we want
to create our first connection
this is typically going to be to a
bootstrap here so for us locally this
would be this bootstrap code on that I'm
running a long machine for ipfs those
are gateway notes in particularly with
IP that's what we have because we have a
list of 10 new gateway notes and we dial
directly to those when we start up now
that's the strap into the network and we
can find crews from there so in order to
dial to those we need to know the
address so this is where multi addresses
come in commonly refer to as multi
adders because ease suck
so what multi addresses do is they let
us compose flexible addresses as species
our communication has changed a lot over
time and the address of those forms
communication has changed postal
addresses email addresses phone numbers
domains the format of this has changed
over time so we need to do is we need to
create days flexible mechanism that we
can describe addresses over time as we
get to etudes transports if we get radio
transports whatever those look like how
do we make sure that we have a flexible
form of describing that and that's what
multi addresses aim to do so let's look
at a few of those so if you run an IP FS
server you're likely going to see the
very first dress pop-up which is a TCP
address running on your local IP on port
so tomorrow dial that node do you have
to have local access to it the second
one almost the same is running on four
thousand two but there's a WS at the end
which is WebSockets if you see WSS
that's WebSocket secure so that's a
celebration of that and it also tells us
that the WebSocket is running over a DCP
transport potentially in the future have
to change and maybe it's not TCP
transport at the beginning it might be
something else that WebSocket runs over
so let's look at some fun lines this one
up top is a with our TC star address
which would be using today and we can
these are best
I found to read from the right-hand side
because we pick up what the target node
is running over so here we see the
target node is running PGP weather
arkinson start
that's our signaling server address this
indicates that whatever we're about
style is running over Singh it's
listening on this is net server so and
then we can see that signaling server's
address is a WebSocket address over TCP
on for fifteen five by five the next one
a bit more complicated is a circuit
address so this means we're running over
a relay relay the idea of that relay is
PT p qm relays this is an abbreviated
version of your qm i t's
if you look at multi addresses in the
wild though PGP will probably beat ipfs
the goal is to move to be poppy it's
currently supported in wolf jeaious and
go and we'll fall back to a PFF
but because when we built it it was very
specific or like I'd be best but no
anybody can use that any lip p2p node
can use it so we need to be people and
then we see that that relay server is
running over the quick transport which
runs over UDP on four four thousand one
super easy right so once we have that
multi address we can set it up and
actually dial to our peer the multi
address tells us a lot about our peer
most of the time we're going to enable
multiple transports are clear so we're
going to get a giant list of potential
multi addresses which is a great thing
because the more transports that we have
and we support the more people can dial
us assuming our addresses are public so
chapter two is going to be focused on
just adding that so if you go into the
code it's just going to be you're going
to add your listening addresses if you
can then luckily mostly everything will
be able to add this new addresses forth
because we are using the signaling
server and then the dialing addresses
which will dial to good bootstrap node
for you locally there is in the node.js
folder and there's a bootstrap folder in
there which has the bootstrap node in a
signaling server and so if you run that
locally on your own that will the
examples will automatically dial to it
if they're set to dial to the look
so when you do that this is what happens
over Wireshark this is the connection so
the only thing we see here is our new
dialing to the important of the
beechcraft hood and the only information
that we exchange is a multi stream
pension this is our protocol negotiation
and tape which we will talk a little bit
more about notation a little bit and
then we see plaintext switches are very
very secure encryption merry-go-round
encryption for it a little bit but this
is it it stops like there's no more data
that's exchanged we're connected so how
do we reuse that connection we have this
connection lit p2p wants to do a bunch
of things in the background it wants to
do a bunch of exchanges to verify things
but when we're not when we don't have a
multiplex connection it's hard for us to
do that painful first so we want to be
able to reuse that connection
we've got pub/sub messages DHT queries
we've got the living to be identify
protocol there's direct communication
the chat protocol that we're gonna write
for this we want to be able to use that
to how do we reuse the connection there
how many of you are familiar with tin
can phone so it's the idea that you can
take a can of your favorite foodstuffs
punch a hole in the bottom of it run a
string to the other kam and you can talk
with somebody know what not yet maybe
maybe someday maybe it'll be a science
fair very reliable on a network like
today yeah so how do we how do we get
from here to something like this but
with that multiple connections what if
we had one connection that is a lot of
virtual strength this is what stream
multi planning for this work combo
verbally as muxing so multiplexing it's
not a new concept they actually used it
in the 1870s for telegraphy so it's been
around for quite a long time if you
think about TCP connections running over
an IP address
those are multiplex by Porter telephone
lines will they collect phone calls by
historical event frequency of the phone
so if you were calling your neighbor
down the road it would operate on a
different frequency and somebody else
using the line and as soon as we had too
many people living in a space with non
appliance eventually ran out of
frequencies we had to add more telephone
that Lippe to people tech lectures don't
work the same way but they do a similar
thing so for example multiplex RM plaits
it does this by prepending data in the
stream with a streamlined edifying
pattern as well as the length of the
content that you want to send so when we
go in and we send a chat over the wire
you see that chat message is 100 bytes
what we do at the very beginning of that
we say okay let's create a new stream
will call the idea of that stream v
we're gonna send a message of a hundred
bytes so we say it's gonna be a hundred
and then we tack on our message we send
that over the wire and we're going to
read that in and you say okay this data
is going to stream five there's a
hundred bytes of it so I'm not gonna
read the next 100 bytes and then I'm
gonna stop I'm gonna pull that into
Senate this way it'll chew in to the
next message on the stream or on the
connection because it might be going
somewhere else so muck search that we
currently have available at bucks is the
most widely supported it's a JSON rust
llaman using going rust speedy Jason go
quick has a built in multi collector
so only go has that support right now
and then Mikado is also things go again
you can bring multiple multiplexers
configure multiples of those the
advantage there is perhaps not all nodes
are going to be the same thing like
we've talked about a varying degree of
support here and some multiplexers are
more performant than others so if you
bring multiple multiplexers you're going
to have more options going forward this
also helps with upgrading network over
time as we add supports we can slow the
deprecated support rather than cutting
each type of network so chapter three
code is gonna focus on wolf muxing and
encryption let's take a second and go
back to the Wireshark and look at what
happens if we just enable multiplexing
no other shades of the code this is what
happens if you see up on the right hand
side there is a scroll bar so we still
have our multi stream handshake and then
we have our super secure plaintext and
then we negotiate which is our stream
little bit as soon as we do that logic
rat happens we negotiate circuit relay
we negotiate we send over IDs so we're
letting each other know what protocols
we support we're negotiating eh to be
late determine what we support ideally
this would be a lot shorter
right now the multi stream 100 protocol
negotiation is pretty inefficient
we have specs that we're working on for
both engineering to that should
hopefully make that much shorter so we
can get all the information we need in
much less conversations but yes this is
just enabling multi-stream are sorry the
multi-touch something you'll notice here
all of this data is free to look at over
the wire not the best our plain text is
failing us so how do we put that data so
we can see it
luckily the p2p you can bring whatever
encryption framework you want currently
sekai up is are mostly supported that's
supported by go Jas and Russ TLS one
three has support for go south now as we
get more support will likely migrate
away from the SEC i/o over to TLS three
or one of these other prime encryption
some people are working on noise for
that and then the quick transport also
have built-in TLS encryption support we
originally built sekai oh it's just a
liquid history overview because of
needing central authorities to do
certificate generation that doesn't work
very well in a period here I just
remember so we rolled that until seal
s13 though and complete it's almost
there
for 4 KS so people have that same and
again in chapter 3 we'll deal with the
encryption so as you go through chapter
3 it will have stream multiplexing added
in there and encryption and if you get
stuck at any point
check out chapter 4 now this would go
back to Wireshark look at that
we'll see multi-stream plaintext is gone
we now have a sec IATA data exchange and
then after that we have some nuts
exchanges like 24 or 32 bytes and then
everything gets encrypted out the back
after our original identity exchange so
we're shark can't parse that anymore so
everything is secure yay so now that
weren't proof that we've been talking a
lot about protocols and Lippi to be this
multi-stream 100 protocol
there's an IPF s being protocol there's
a certain real early protocol so what
the hell are protocols if you think
about like a restful api and you're
familiar with restful api's you can
think of protocols like influenced or
paths in your system and also mean what
you're going to do is you're going to
register handlers for those paths
multi-stream 100 is like the router for
that so ultimately it's deciding about
how our ABI is going to work and how
we're gonna negotiate those so just like
Anna wrestled API it if you try to send
data to one endpoint that doesn't exist
there it's not gonna work and if it
tries us and you date it back that
you're not expecting
yeah ok should probably have a bad time
so just if you're familiar with that
think about it that way
so we're building a chat app we should
create a chat protocol and we'll go
ahead and call that lip baby chat 100
something to note if when you're
building protocol names if you're going
to be joining the public network
be descriptive if you just pick
something like Chaplin ello I even let
me check might have better if you're
connecting to millions or billions of
nodes there's probably going to be some
conflict there because you will try to
negotiate at some point with other peers
so you have to just be descriptive just
like you would namespace any code
packages or domain names so chapter 4
also I'm here to help ghost
yeah so what we'll do is I at least want
to go over what the protocol is and
quickly look through that so what we'll
do is I'll just pull up some code here
for gas if you want to follow
all right so if you look at nude in here
i'm in chat nodejs go to the protocol so
the chat protocol is pretty simple all
we have built the park everything that
all right all right so we have our chat
protocol stream chat 100 and then here's
our handler it's pretty basic if you go
through the browser code it's going to
be almost the same there's just some
view differentiation and how we're
setting stuff up cause it's reactin
versus printing to determine so in here
richly in our hand are gorgeous
it requires too big part takes two
arguments one is protocol right now
we're not using it at all but what this
lets you do is actually do like match
functions and things so for example like
in ipfs we have bit swap 1 1 and 100
what we can actually do is use this
protocol information to figure out what
version it is and then do like case
specific checks so if we have one one
when we can run a different set of code
than 100 and then we're just taking the
discrete oh we have here and all we're
doing if you're not familiar with pull
streams is this is basically a pipe so
we're taking the stream and we're piping
all of that data into a collect and then
just plugging it off to the console so
all we're doing in the browser is
setting that on the react component so
it's just a very super simple thing and
then the only other thing we have here
is a send method so when we go to dial
this I will show you the dog code in a
second very crude kind of gross but
won't prove that later is this simple
which just take the message and it pipes
it over the stream that's it
so go look at that code
let's go to chapter five so chapter five
has all of our solution code so in here
all we do is we do a lip PP and alcohol
and that's going to take our protocol
and our handler function that's it and
if we had multiple support so say we had
another chat protocol you could do live
p2p slash chat slash wound up on the o
get far handler did that check on the
version number we would be able to do
this and then what we're doing is we're
reading in the terminal data getting rid
of the newline characters and then the
very gross thing that you probably don't
want to do in a real-world scenario yes
protocol is it like exact matches well
this is what you get with the protocol
this is what you can do here as you can
do you just do mobile tall's - yeah to
register the habit you can do right now
it's specific than the J's code to do
but multiple handler version calls
because every time you go through and
you call the handle code it's going to
take that and it's going to add it to
your identity information and when you
do an identity handshake with another
peer you're going to tell that fear
about all of the protocols that you
support including the version changes
and what that lets up here to do is make
more informed decisions so rather than
blindly dialing you and checking a
protocol and wasting that that
round-trip they can just say oh you
don't support one one you still support
one oh I'm a ninja style on that one
so here the crude code that we're doing
right now is we look in our pure book
and go this is called pure storm which
would probably coalesce on those names
all we do is we get all of the piers we
check if we're committed to them and if
they support the chat protocol this is
our check the house and then we dial to
them and negotiate the chat protocol and
if we connect we send them that message
this is super gross right because it's
like alright we're all connected 40 of
us in a room on the make sure that I
dialed - ever seen one of you and send
you a message like this is this is
painful
so how do you make that better
so the first step in making that better
is actually find Pierce instead of
manually targeting all of them hey let's
all this exchange address books and
write each other's IDs down that sounds
awful
so how do we find peers on this very
giant network we can talk about a few of
these but let P be how support to build
your own peer discovery towers so if
you're toying around with Bluetooth or
NFC or radio or anything else you can
build a discovery channel for that just
plug it into the PP so the first four
that we're currently use gonna be using
this workshop bootstrap bootstrap is a
discovery mechanism that all's it
doesn't say hey you have a list of multi
addresses I have just discovered those
peers that you can dial them that's it
but for a network to be able to
progressively make it an 8-man being
fully distributed this is a decent
centralized approach to getting there at
least in a mdns or multicast dns is
local network discovery so if you think
about printer discovering a controller
network or the old mac modular app
finding people in the local network that
all uses mdns so ultimately what happens
is you're going to connect to the local
network you're going to use the Lupita
vlookup to look up the p2p services on
the network and then every little V if
you note is going to respond back to you
and you're also going to reply to that
query the advantage of this is when you
join the network you're also going to be
broadcasting your new identity to the
network so people can connect to you if
you look at the visualization there are
going to be some people running this
there are also just people there are now
I'm finding on the network because I'm
running no GS and empty nesters so these
are people that are also running the VP
so we do see a couple of notes there
that are part of our chat client the
green notes
which are no chance I believe there's a
legend and the purple note is Alex so if
you do make your way or you happen to
jump into the chapter 8 and start that
up you should be able to chat with Alice
if you join their or running ideas
so the tht we'll talk about right after
this because it's a bit of a thing but
we'll talk specifically about the read
and walk component for that and then we
have Rhonda Mason run two new servers so
for this we're using the WebRTC
signaling server we also have a web
socket under your server
not only does the WebRTC signaling
server allow us to negotiate and get
direct dials but it will also tell us
about every other period that's
connected to it so it also acts as a
peer discovery mechanism which is nice
so let's talk about the DHT random walk
this is a very useful discovery
mechanism once you join something like
the bootstrap noise so the way the DHT
random walk works is also below you're
going to do a query on the DHT if you're
not familiar with a PhD it's a
distributed hash table just a big fancy
key value store basically so what we do
is we're going to create a random pure
ID we're not looking for anything
specific we're just going to create a
random ID we don't want to find anything
on the network we just want to find
other peers on the network so we create
a random ID and for simplicity since QM
I these are art to keep in your mind
we'll just say random so we create a
random ID Oh Brandon we're going to look
for that peer so the first thing we do
is we looked at all of the degrees that
we know are any of them Brandon
hopefully not because we just made up
this ID we got that kind of collision we
have bigger problems but we shouldn't
get collision later so what we'll do is
we'll look at all the peers that we know
and we're gonna find up here with the
closest ID it's a brand new so this is
eventually going to be a DHT heat and
what we do is we do an explore binary
on that to see what the big difference
is and the closer the smaller the bit
difference is those are the peers we're
going to use so if we look at our group
of six here we check our five peers and
we see that Alice and Bob are have the
closest IDs for Brandon so we'll go
ahead and say okay I'm gonna query Bob
Bob do you know Brandon offices no I
don't know Brandon but I know Brenda who
has a closer ID to Brandon so this is
how we discovered Brenda and this is how
the ght random walk works except that a
much larger skill look at the su random
walk query is probably gonna grade
between 100 and 200 peers yeah so we're
gonna continue down that query and so we
can't find anybody that's closer so this
is why we end up grading so many
Pierce's we should you asking and asking
and asking the jst 80 will query 40
peers in parallel right now because
ultimately we don't go down one path we
go down many paths and we do that
recursively until we get no better
results so just like transports and
multiplexers discovery works best when
you bring many of them if you just bring
loot strap you're probably gonna end up
here the first one like yeah we know
this bootstrap node that's not super
helpful let's add mdns and meanness we
get local discovery that's all it
appears that we know will now get access
to the network and then rendezvous
server lets us do stuff like just swap
RPC signally we can get natural versus
all we can actually start talking
directly to people so also we were
trying to get here right now the
Internet is here so chapter 5 is going
to show you how to set up that discovery
it's pretty pretty simple for all of us
it's all basically just configuration
and adding in a couple modules if you do
get stuck there what do you want to look
at that towards the end here we can go
through that code and again the solution
will be in Chapter six we'll be able to
see that
so we talking about the super gross dial
everybody code to chop them let's not do
that
how about we use up sub pub/sub seems
like a good thing to use for chat
currently we have two pub sub libraries
there's gossip sub or floods up so
flotsam is a very very crude simple
inefficient version of pub so what we do
is we take every peer that we know who's
the pops up here and we send them a
message and they take that message and
set it onto every peer that they know
will do that over and over and over and
over again we do add a cache so we don't
continually flood the network but it's
crude in its gross and but it works it
works very well people will get that
message hopefully not multiple times but
it does happen
so gossip sub is a better version of
this what gossip sub does is when we
connect through pub sub Network we take
a subset of peers so maybe there's 20 of
us in the room we'll take maybe five
peers and we create an overlay network
with those pub sub peers on national
relations what happens is whenever we
get a message we only send it to those
appears when we subscribe to those peers
we've also told them that we were adding
them to our men at us to theirs so
they'll also send us messages the
problem with this approach is a peers
might not get messages like we're only
sub broadcasting to some set this is
this is where gossip the gossip
component comes in so what we do in
addition to sending messages to our mesh
is we pick random peers who aren't in
our map we broadcast the metadata about
recent messages we've seen so we might
say hey I just sent these five message
IDs and they'll say oh I haven't seen
two of those giving you those messages
they'll get the message from the peer
and then they'll broadcast to their
match so this is how we overcome that
issue so it's a more efficient
that's up so why would you use what's up
support right now
the only reason currently j/s and rust
have implementations in progress
hopefully we'll get them soon so this is
why you would use Plus up the advantage
for all you go folks
is that you can use gossips up right now
and it will fall back the klutz up for
all your peers you don't to be customers
so when we you go yeah so chapter six
deals with getting rid of that super
gross Jackpine code will look over that
at the end I just want to make sure that
we get through the rest of the content
and we can go over what that transition
looks like how we just switch over to
evening pub side
so total pub sub is going to introduce
messaging like protobuf messaging so
we're chatting over pubs up that's great
we actually are exchanging messages
using protobuf if you're not familiar
with wrote about it is a data
serialization deserialization library
just like JSON or seaboard you don't
have to use protocol you could use JSON
or seaboard just most lathela p2p
protocols today currently use proto buck
what put a buff lets us do is take data
objects serialize them send them as
binary our bytes over the network and
then from there back into objects and
that kind of looks like this
currently we were just sending in
Chapter six
we're just sending messages over the
network that's not terribly good use of
like one protocol so how can we make
this a little bit more complicated
well the loop EP we do this with two
bucks so you can see here as we're using
in Chapter seven in the new code well
also the J's code will also have an
extra a request type so we add the
request types here the first one you'll
see a send message and that's just our
basic message data that we're sending
this is our data our chat message when
we created it and
very basic idea for the chat we also do
an update here of us so we add the
ability if you are using chat you can do
you are in chapter 8 you can do / name
and rename yourself well this is a
terribly good way to change your name
because if anybody joins pub/sub later
they're not going to get your name
change this alesis shows you how you can
go about doing multiple request types so
we'll look through that code at the end
here and see how we're handling that the
different case so we'll go over that
shortly as part of chapter 7 we'll walk
through that code but quickly we're
going to talk your about subnets so we
have our chat protocol we want to chat
with each other
say there's 30 or 40 of us in this room
now we all go home when we want to chat
with each other if we join the public
network how do we reliably get chapped
one another if there's a network of
millions how do we make sure that the 20
of us are getting each other's messages
do we go back to this thing and menu a
dial each other or do we just use pops
up and hope that our chats make it
across the network it's one another in
its timely fashion probably neither of
those so we can actually go back to the
DHT in addition to being able to find
peers and storing peer information
PhD also stores concept provider
information we store provider records so
in approach to this not the only
approach by any mean but approach to
solving this subnet problem is we can
use the DHT this similar concept to the
random walk to store a provider record
so instead of randomly querying for an
ID what we could do is take our chat
topic Limpy TV chat 100 we could turn
that into a DHT key and do a query to
find the closest peers to
or DHCP so we go up we do that random
walk that's no longer random we find the
closest 20 peers on the network to our
topic and then we tell them that we're a
provider of that topic so when we
subscribe we can broadcast that we can
set it we can also query to find other
people who are providers of that chat
topic so we could go Cory out to the
network find that information now we can
tile each other what this gives us the
ability to do is we can create a mesh
overlay to chat overlay network in
addition to being connected with the
broader network and this is going to be
an important part of distributed systems
because if you just blindly connect to
the network and broadcast information
you're probably not going to be able to
reliably exchange the information that
you want ultimately in the distributed
network we need to be able to create
areas of concern or things that I care
about I want that information so we want
to create overlay networks this is a
possible way of doing that so we can
take our chat topic register unsubscribe
and query on subscribe and then create
overlay Network there's not any code
currently in the p2p that manages
overlays but that is something that we
probably want to look at and I think
we're doing a deep dive on connection
management later today so if anybody is
interested in that
come join and we can talk about that so
that's n here we have nine all right
we've got like twenty minutes so we can
go back and walk through some code does
anybody have any questions I so I
understand this is also for the cookie
but those standard IVFs and I would like
is it just able to run this stuff also
like this
yes yeah so there
Brenden v5 talked about this in his life
yesterday about getting access to like
the post can go to be able to do this in
Jay s you can just access the BTB object
on it if you are running like a daemon
yes yeah so these are these might be IP
vestments for me I say the topic I want
to only interested in this topic isn't
that what it should do that right it's
it's getting getting to the peers all
the know I noticed such difficulties as
well about that at the end of the day
any intention with the DHT business so
you will be like us himself thumbs up
please so you shouldn't have to go all
the way to with the HT as yeah sometimes
it's necessary but right in ideally with
and I think that's something that we
want to add to the PDP in general
because not everybody's going to be
easily gossips up what they need to do
so how do we create those overlays in
general for Olivia to be so that
application falters
yeah so you have yeah so there's you're
not going to be able to use like there
is yes so this is how most addresses
were so let's take so here we've
registered from our peer that we are
listening on TCP we're listening on
WebSockets and we're also listening on
the web RTC start server so we're gonna
broadcast these addresses out to our
peer this also looks like if you look at
the bootstrap messages we have this
series of adverts this year so we're
going to advertise those addresses to
all the peers and ultimately what we do
is when we take those addresses with p2p
is going to go through them and find
it's going to filter for transport
status importance and then it's just
going to dial over those so you
automatically will get this is why
bringing multiple transports is is
valuable because even if you're just
dialing over them W go through and say
okay well this is TCP maybe I don't
support gzp but I do support WebSocket
so I'm going to douse you over website
I'm gonna try that one first and then it
will just try the addresses itself
succeeds various versions j/s currently
will do this in cereal because closing
open connection dials is painful right
now thing and Jan's but go will try all
of the addresses in parallel so it will
attempt to dial
all them iniquitous addresses the one
that gets used let me call this on the
headers so so if we went and we look at
let's look at pops up so when we
switched over to pops up we created a
basic pub/sub chat topic our pub sub
chat object and we changed over when we
got our message
rather than doing a protocol sent me now
you have a pub sub chat set so if we go
look at our new public sub chat type
we've got our motive up here if we go
down to send we'll see here we're doing
an encoding of protobuf with our mess of
data and then we just do with P to be
published on pub side and we're doing it
to our chat topic you send the message
and that's it I mean on any earth and
then as must just come in we go in we
decode the requests we get the request
type and then based on the request type
for our profile we can just do a basic
switch to figure out what we need to do
whether that's setting a user handle for
people or going through and actually
firing off that message temperate
weather to our react view or rendering
that out
so what we'll be doing as a follow-up to
this because it is a lot of content that
Jam into 75 minutes we're gonna be
putting together some videos of each of
the chapter and just kind of creating a
video series all of the slides will be
posted there's a bunch of speakers so
it's in the slides that walk through
everything as well and then you can
check out the reviews so we'll go
through and actually walk through the
code so you guys can if you want to die
then you get more hands-on with this
outside of context are outside of the
chat feel free to do that and we'll have
this
and if you have any questions or want to
talk about anything or one spend 15
minutes or so
otherwise I'll let you have that time
back
[Applause]